# EFS -- ELASTIC FILE SYSTEM

* Amazon EFS is built to scale on demand to petabytes without disrupting applications, growing and shrinking automatically as you add and remove files. 
* Because Amazon EFS has a simple web services interface, you can create and configure file systems quickly and easily. 
* The service manages all the file storage infrastructure for you, meaning that you can avoid the complexity of deploying, patching, and maintaining complex file system configurations.
* Managed Network file system that can mount on any EC2 instance.
* it can attach to ec2 instance on other AZ unlike EBS
* Highly available, scalable,
* expensive (3 * gp2),
* pay per use.
* no capacity planning
* Use cases
  * content management
  * web surfing
  * data sharing
  * wordpress
* You need to setup security group in order to EFS
* uses NFS v4.1 protocol
* compatible with linux based AMIs

```
Pending Hands - on : EFS
```

## EFS Modes
Amazon EFS is designed to provide the throughput, IOPS, and low latency needed for a broad range of workloads. 
With Amazon EFS, you can choose from two performance modes and three throughput modes:
1. The **default General Purpose** performance mode is the recommended mode. General Purpose is ideal for latency-sensitive use cases, like web-serving environments, content-management systems, home directories, and general file serving.
   1. used for web servers
   2. CMS
2. In **Performance Mode**,File systems in the Max I/O performance mode can scale to higher levels of aggregate throughput and operations per second. However, these file systems have higher latencies for file system operations.
   1. used for big data apps
   2. media processing
3. With the **default Bursting Throughput mode**, throughput scales with the amount of storage in your file system and supports bursting to higher levels for up to 12 hours per day.
4. With **Elastic Throughput** mode, Amazon EFS automatically scales throughput performance up or down to meet the needs of your workload activity.
5. With **Provisioned Throughput** mode, you specify a level of throughput that the file system can drive independent of the file system's size or burst credit balance. For more information, see Throughput modes.

## EFS Storage Classes

1. Standard storage classes – EFS Standard and EFS Standard–Infrequent Access (Standard–IA), which offer Multi-AZ resilience and the highest levels of durability and availability.
2. One Zone storage classes – EFS One Zone and EFS One Zone–Infrequent Access (EFS One Zone–IA), which offer you the choice of additional savings by choosing to save your data in a single Availability Zone.